YOUR-DATA.md, before:

# How we use your data

## Summary

In short, data we collect is for research purposes and to help the American Red Cross and other nonprofit disaster response groups accurately respond to and monitor natural disasters that are discussed on Twitter.

Currently it is only a small team of people who has access to any saved tweets, and they all are obtained from tweets about house fires and other disasters.

## Detail

We plan to store and collect tweets in the Chicago-land area about house fires, wildfires, floods, and other natural disasters.

We are not interested in storing names, emails, screen names, telephone numbers, or any other personally identifying information about any individual.

If you believe that we are storing your data and want it removed, please contact us immediately and we will make sure that it is removed.

We will never disclose or sell data, esp. personal information, to any commercial entity that wishes to use it for monetary gain. Your personal information is not for sale.

### Analysis

We do analyze the tweets we obtain from Twitter using sentiment analysis to detect whether or not a particular tweet is truly about a specific natural disaster, or if it is not.

#### Account analysis

We are planning to (we do not currently) analyze the frequency and quality of "true positive" tweets made by specific users such as @Chicago_Scanner, @cfd_fd, @ChicagoRedCross, etc.

We do this because we want to build a list of accounts that frequently tweet about true natural disaster incidents that are proven to be credible to allow our tool to serve accurate disaster information to first responders and American Red Cross volunteers.

These users (there are more) are currently selected because they send tweets that we deem to be highly relevant to natural disasters and emergencies.

## Twitter Features

We do not currently allow this application to tweet, retweet, like, follow, or direct message any users. It is unlikely we will ever need to do this.

Commit message:

finish 'how do we use your data'

YOUR-DATA.md, after:

# How we use your data

## Summary

In short, data we collect is for research purposes and to help the American Red Cross and other nonprofit disaster response groups accurately respond to and monitor natural disasters that are discussed on Twitter.

Currently it is only a small team of people who has access to any saved tweets, and they all are obtained from tweets about house fires and other disasters.

## Detail

We plan to store and collect tweets in the Chicago-land area about house fires, wildfires, floods, and other natural disasters.

We are not interested in storing names, emails, telephone numbers, or any other personally identifying information about any individual. We may store screen names as they could lead us to accounts that frequently post useful tweets.

We will store geolocation data as it could be used to analyze where fires occur frequently, time of day, etc.

If you believe that we are storing your data and want it removed, please contact us immediately and we will make sure that it is removed.

We will never disclose or sell data, esp. personal information, to any commercial entity that wishes to use it for monetary gain. Your personal information is not for sale.

### Analysis

We do analyze the tweets we obtain from Twitter using sentiment analysis to detect whether or not a particular tweet is truly about a specific natural disaster, or if it is not.

#### Account analysis

We are planning to (we do not currently) analyze the frequency and quality of "true positive" tweets made by specific users such as @Chicago_Scanner, @cfd_fd, @ChicagoRedCross, etc.

We do this because we want to build a list of accounts that frequently tweet about true natural disaster incidents that are proven to be credible to allow our tool to serve accurate disaster information to first responders and American Red Cross volunteers.

These users (there are more) are currently selected because they send tweets that we deem to be highly relevant to natural disasters and emergencies.

## Displaying your data

We plan to display tweets, usernames, and locations only to first responders and nonprofit disaster response volunteers.

We plan to create aggregate data (a live map, a live feed, a chart of occurring disasters) and display it to first responders and/or disaster response volunteers.

## Twitter Features

We do not currently allow this application to tweet, retweet, like, follow, or direct message any users. It is unlikely we will ever need to do this.

It can read account information (i.e. your screen name) and it can read and search for tweets.

## Government entities

We do not currently provide and are not planning to provide any data to any government entities.
